2.4.0 changelog (#4210)
mixxxdj/mixxx: CHANGELOG.md

  [#4063](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4063)
  [#4100](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4100)
  [#4154](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4154)
  [#4165](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4165)
  [#4168](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4168)
* Add support for m4v files [#4088](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4088)
* Adjust ReplayGain: Allow user to update the replaygain value based on a deck pregain value [#4031](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4031)
* Refactoring of library code
  [#2756](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2756)
  [#2717](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2717)
  [#2715](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2715)
  [#2810](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2756)
  [#2900](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2900)
  [#2906](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2906)
  [#2925](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2925)
  [#3017](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3017)
  [#3475](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3475)
  [#4164](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4164)
  [#4152](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4152)
  [#4162](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4162)

> ### Beat Sync

Reviewer: Isn't this feature just called Sync?

```suggestion
### Sync
```

  [#4065](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4065)
  [#4066](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4066)
  [#4069](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4069)
  [#4074](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4074)
  [#4075](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4075)
  [#4076](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4076)
  [#4078](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4078)
  [#4082](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4082)
  [#4077](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4077)
  [#4080](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4080)
  [#4086](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4086)
  [#4089](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4089)
  [#4090](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4090)
  [#4079](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4079)
  [#4091](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4091)
  [#4083](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4083)
  [#4095](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4095)
  [#4081](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4081)
  [#4061](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4061)
  [#4105](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4105)
  [#4183](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4183)
  [#4186](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4186)

> ### Controller

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Controllers
```
to make it consistent with the 2.3.0 changelog.

## [2.4.0](https://launchpad.net/mixxx/+milestone/2.4.0) (Unreleased)

> ### Cover Art ###

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Cover Art
```

And everywhere else

> * Prevent wrong cover art display due to hash conflicts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Prevent wrong cover art display due to hash conflicts [#2524](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2524)
```

* Add background color for quick cover art preview [#2524](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2524)

### Music Library ###

> * Ensure that tracks with an invalid bpm are re-analyzed [#2776](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2776)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Ensure that tracks with an invalid BPM are re-analyzed [#2776](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2776)
```

> * Engine Prime export using djinterop

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add support for exporting crates, playlists and the library to Engine Prime and Denon standalone controllers
```

  [#2753](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2753)
  [#2932](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2932)
  [#3102](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3102)
  [#3155](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3155)
  [#3621](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3621)
  [#3776](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3776)
  [#3787](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3787)
  [#3797](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3797)
  [#3798](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3798)
  [#4025](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4025)
  [#4087](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4087)
  [#4102](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4102)
  [#4143](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4143)
* Rekordbox: Save all loops and correct AAC timing offset for CoreAudio [#2779](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2779)

> * Improve messages during schema migration [#2979](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2979)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Improve log messages during schema migration [#2979](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2979)
```

> * Fix "[Library],GoToItem" in tracks table [#3196](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3196)

Reviewer: Is this broken in 2.3? Or is this a regression fix? In that case it should not be part of the changelog.

Author: This has been backported to 2.3.0 .. removed.

* Search related tracks in collection
  [#3181](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3181)
  [#3213](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3213)
  [#2796](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2796)
* Add recent searches to a drop down menu of the search box
  [#3171](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3171)
  [#3262](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3262)
* Add new "[AutoDJ],add_random_track" to make this feature accessible from controllers [#3076](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3076)
* Add new last_played_at column
  [#3140](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3140)
  [#3457](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3457)
  [#3494](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3494)
  [#3596](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3596)
  [#3740](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3740)
* Improve presentation of the history library tree [#2996](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2996)

> * Don't store or update medadata of missing tracks [#3811](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3811)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Don't store or update metadata of missing tracks in the Mixxx database to prevent inconsistencies with file tags [#3811](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3811)
```

* Code improvements and minor bug fixes when importing track metadata
  [#3851](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3851)
  [#3858](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3858)
  [#3860](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3860)
  [#3866](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3866)
  [#3871](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3871)
  [#3870](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3870)
  [#3924](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3924)
  [#3906](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3906)
  [#3998](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3998)

> * Update library schema to 37 for synchronizing file modified time with track source on metadata import/export

Author: Basically that 2.4 has a new schema. What is yous suggestion?

  [#3978](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3978)
  [#4012](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4012)
* Only show the date in Date Added / Last Played columns. Move the time of day to tooltips [#3945](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3945)

> * Fix handling of undefined bpm values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fix handling of undefined BPM values
```

  [#3867](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3867)
  [#3921](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3921)
  [#4119](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4119)
  [#4135](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4135)
  [#4149](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4149)
* Fix issue with half/double sync clock
  [#3899](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3899)
  [#3706](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3706)
* Sync Lock: Don't seek phase when disabling sync [#4169](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4169)

### Audio Codecs ###
* Fix recovering from FAAD2 decoding issues [#2850](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2850)

### Audio Engine ###
* Add support for Saved loops
  [#2194](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2194)
  [#3267](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3267)
  [#3202](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3202)
* Fix an issue when using multiple cue buttons at a time [#3382](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3382)
* Fix synchronization of main cue point/position
  [#4137](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4137)
  [lp1937074](https://bugs.launchpad.net/mixxx/+bug/1937074)
  [#4153](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4153)

> * Refactoring of beats object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Refactoring of beatgrid/beatmap code
```

I guess that will be more understandable for non-devs

  [#4065](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4065)
  [#4066](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4066)
  [#4069](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4069)
  [#4074](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4074)
  [#4075](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4075)
  [#4076](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4076)
  [#4078](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4078)
  [#4082](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4082)
  [#4077](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4077)
  [#4080](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4080)
  [#4086](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4086)
  [#4089](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4089)
  [#4090](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4090)
  [#4079](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4079)
  [#4091](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4091)
  [#4083](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4083)
  [#4095](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4095)
  [#4081](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4081)
  [#4061](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4061)
  [#4105](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4105)
  [#4183](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4183)
  [#4186](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4186)

> ### Controller ###

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Controllers
```

> * ES6 based controller mapping system with module support

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* ES6 based controller mapping system
```
Using ES6 modules is still not possible as we're not loading the mappings as a module.

Author: For my understanding #2868 enabled the module support. Is it not yet usable?

Author: Anyway, I have improved the sentences to "Prepare code for upcoming ES6 based controller mapping system with module support" does it fit?

Reviewer 2: >  For my understanding #2868 enabled the module support. Is it not yet usable?

Oh wow, I forgot about that PR entirely. I guess we technically do have module support, however, we have absolutely 0 docs or already written code that demonstrate this.

> Anyway, I have improved the sentences to "Prepare code for upcoming ES6 based controller mapping system with module support" does it fit?

The situation is too complex to describe in two sentences IMO so I don't care how we phrase it exactly. More important is that we document situation ASAP.

Reviewer 3: There is no way to load ES6 modules currently.

* Update Novation Launchpad controller scripts [#2600](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2600)
* Add generic USB HID "Set Reports (Feature)" functionality [#3051](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3051)

> * HID functions to read back the status of an HID controller (like MIDI SYSEX) [#3317](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3317)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add support for reading the status of an HID controller (like MIDI SYSEX) [#3317](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3317)
```

> * Use hidraw backend of hidapi instead of libusb backend [#4054](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4054)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use hidapi's hidraw backend instead of libusb on Linux [#4054](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4054)
```

> * Rename Preset to Mappings [#3472](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3472)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Consistently use "mapping" instead of "preset" to refer to controller mappings [#3472](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3472)
```

> * Introduce new control objects [Master],indicator_250millis and [Master],indicator_500millis [#4157](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4157)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Introduce new control objects `[Master],indicator_250millis` and `[Master],indicator_500millis` [#4157](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4157)
```

  [#3963](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3963)
  [#3971](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3971)
  [#3959](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3959)
  [#3972](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3972)
  [#3992](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3992)
  [#4003](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4003)
  [#4004](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4004)
  [#3999](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3999)
  [#4000](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4000)
  [#4067](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4067)
  [#4068](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4068)
  [#4060](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4060)
  [#4037](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4037)
  [#3934](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3934)
  [#4117](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4117)
* Add new "RGB Stacked" waveform [#3153](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3153)
* Add harmonic keywheel window
  [#1695](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/1695)
  [#3622](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3622)
  [#3624](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3624)
* Make beat indicator control behaviour more natural [#3608](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3608)

> * Fix crash if no skin is available

Reviewer: Was this a regression from my skin refactoring? I dont remember.

Author: For my understanding this was an issue before.

Reviewer: Ok.

  [#3918](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3918)
  [#3939](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3939)
* Don't allow waveforms to obtain input focus [#4128](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4128)

> * Inverted scroll wheel waveform zoom direction to mach other applications [#4195](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4195)

Reviewer 2: already part of 2.3.1

Author: No, it was merged to main.

Reviewer 2: My bad, #4195 did only go into main, but #4128 was opened against 2.3 as well (#4134).

Reviewer 4: yep, the fix was back-ported to 2.3

  [#4070](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4070)
  [#4084](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4084)
  [#4098](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4098)
  [#4113](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4113)
  [#4163](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4163)
  [#4166](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4166)
  [#4185](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4185)
  [#4187](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4187)
* Drop Ubuntu Bionic support, require Qt 5.12
  [#3687](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3687)
  [#3735](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3735)
  [#3736](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3736)
  [#3985](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3985)
* Add NixOS support
  [#2820](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2820)
  [#2828](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2828)
  [#2836](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2836)
  [#2827](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2827)
  [#2827](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2827)
  [#2828](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2828)
  [#3113](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3113)
  [#3089](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3089)
  [#3545](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3545)

> * Add Random Track Control to AutoDJ [#3076](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3076)

Reviewer: This is already mentioned in the music library section above.

* Add support for saving loops as hotcues [#2194](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2194) [lp:1367159](https://bugs.launchpad.net/mixxx/+bug/1367159)
* Make use of inclusive language [#2894](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2894)
* Add Noise effect [#2921](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2921)
* Improve Unittests
  [#2938](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2938)
  [#2980](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2980)
  [#3006](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3006)

> * Logging: Add support for QT_MESSAGE_PATTERN env var [#3204](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3204)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Logging: Add support for `QT_MESSAGE_PATTERN` environment variable [#3204](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3204)
```

> * Colored logging console output and other improvements

Reviewer 2: I dislike the "[...] and other improvements".

  [#3197](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3197)

> * Fix an issue with the `%{function}` placeholder in the QT_MESSAGE_PATTERN for custom logging

Reviewer: This can be removed, the features is only introduced in 2.4 (see 2 lines above)

* Improve command line argument parser
  [#3640](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3640)
  [#3962](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3962)
  [#4022](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4022)
  [#4036](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4036)
  [#4170](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4170)
  [#4057](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4057)

> * Added the Recordbox Hotcue Color Palette [#3746](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3746)

Reviewer 2: already part of 2.3.0

Author: I don't think so, maybe the description was misleading. Improved.

Reviewer 2: Same issue as with the other PR. the PR linked is part of main, but the actual feature / commit has been merged into 2.3 in #3749

> * Rename Master EQ to Main EQ for an inclusive language [#3868](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3868)

Reviewer: Make use of includesuive language is already mentioned above

> * Improve message when dealing with macOs sandbox [#4018](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4018) [lp:1921541](https://bugs.launchpad.net/mixxx/+bug/1921541)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Improve message when dealing with macOS sandbox [#4018](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/4018) [lp:1921541](https://bugs.launchpad.net/mixxx/+bug/1921541)
```

> * CONTRIBUTING.md: move content from DocuWiki [#2699](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2699)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Move contribution guidelines into our git repository [#2699](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/2699)
```

> * Misc. refactorings

Reviewer: Do we really need to mention that? I guess no user will know what it means.

Author: I was unsure about that. We may remove the whole block. For now I have kept it for completeness. 
Ideas?

Reviewer: I think the current entry is not really helpful unless you read all the linked PRs. We could split it up (e.g. "Refactor XYZ", "Fix various compiler warnings", etc.), but I guess this is too much without real relevance to the user.

Or maybe something like "And many more fixes, improvements and cleanups. See the 2.4.0 milestone on GitHub for details."?

Author: > And many more fixes ..

Without the link is not a good idea, because the user will have hard time to find them among all others already listed above. Should I remove the whole block than, to not make the user curious?

* Fix HID controller output on Windows with common-hid-packet-parser.js
* Fix rendering slow down by not using QStylePainter in WSpinny lp:1530720
* Fix broken Mic mute button lp:1782568

> * added quick effect enable button to the control er menu

Reviewer: Please revert

Author: Ups ..
